docker/ReadMe.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# Docker image version definition

Before v0.12, Apache IoTDB's docker image name and version format is:
`apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>`.

From 0.12 on, we release two images: one is for a single node, and the other is for the cluster mode.
The format is: `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-node` and `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-cluster`.

From 1.0.0, we split 3 kinds of images: datanode,confignode and all of them in one image called 1C1D. 
The format is: `apache/iotdb:<version>-confignode`,`apache/iotdb:<version>-datanode` and `apache/iotdb:<version>-1c1d`.

## The definition of tag "latest"
Before v0.12, the "latest" tag will forward to the largest `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>`.

From 0.12 on, the "latest" tag will forward to the largest `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-node`.


# How to build

docker build -t THE_DOCKER_IMAGE_NAME:THE_VERSION -f THE_DOCKER_FILE_NAME

e.g.,

```shell
docker build -t my-iotdb:<version> -f Dockerfile-<version>
# for 1.0.0
cd src/main/DockerCompose
./do-docker-build.sh -t <target> -v <version>
e.g.
./do-docker-build.sh -t confignode -v 1.0.0
```
Notice:
Make directory of src/main/tmp and put the files you'd like to use in dockerfile if you don't want to build the source codes of IoTDB.
e.g.
```shell
$ ls -hl tmp/
total 215M
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 75M Nov 30 20:04 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-all-bin.zip
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 69M Dec  1 17:12 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-confignode-bin.zip
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 73M Dec  1 17:13 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-datanode-bin.zip
```

# How to run IoTDB server 

Actually, we maintain a repo on dockerhub, so that you can get the docker image directly.

For example,

```shell
docker run -d --name iotdb -p 6667:6667 -p 31999:31999 -p 8181:8181 -p 5555:5555 apache/iotdb:<version>
```

```shell
docker run -d --name iotdb -p 6667:6667 -p 31999:31999 -p 8181:8181 -p 5555:5555 -p 9003:9003 -p 40010:40010 apache/iotdb:<version>
```
Since 1.0.0, see [offical documents.](https://iotdb.apache.org/UserGuide/Master/QuickStart/WayToGetIoTDB.html)
## Port description

By default, the ports that IoTDB uses are:

* 6667: RPC port
* 31999: JMX port
* 8086: InfluxDB Protocol port
* 8181: Monitor port
* 5555: Data sync port
* 9003: internal metadata rpc port (for cluster)
* 40010: internal data rpc port (for cluster)


## How to configure docker volumes

The instructions below show how to store the output data and logs of IoTDB to two folders called 
iotdb_data and iotdb_logs respectively. 

`/D/docker/iotdb_data` and `/D/docker/iotdb_logs` can be changed to any local directory of your own host.

```shell
docker run -it -v /D/docker/iotdb_data:/iotdb/data -v /D/docker/iotdb_logs:/iotdb/logs --name 123 apache/iotdb:<version>
```

# How to run IoTDB client

Suppose you have run an IoTDB Server in docker

1. Use `docker ps` to find out the CONTAINER ID
e.g.,
   
```shell
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                NAMES
c82321c70137        apache/iotdb:<version>  "/iotdb/sbin/start-s…"   12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes       0.0.0.0:6667->6667/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8181->8181/tcp, 5555/tcp, 0.0.0.0:31999->31999/tcp   iotdb
```
2. Use `docker exec` to attach the container:

```shell
docker exec -it iotdb /bin/bash
```

Then, for the latest version (or, >=0.10.x), run `start-cli.sh`, for version 0.9.x and 0.8.1, run `start-client.sh`.

Or, 

```shell
docker exec -it iotdb start-cli.sh
```

# How to run IoTDB-grafana-connector

1. First way: use config file:

```
docker run -it -v /your_application.properties_folder:/iotdb-grafana-connector/config -p 8888:8888 apache/iotdb:<version>-grafana
```

2. Second way: use environment(take `SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL` for example)

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 apache/iotdb:<version>-grafana -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:iotdb://iotdb:6667/
```

3. All related environment are as follows(more details in `grafana/src/main/resources/application.properties`)

| name                                | default value                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL               | jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/      |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME          | root                              |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD          | root                              |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_DRIVER_CLASS_NAME | org.apache.iotdb.jdbc.IoTDBDriver |
| SERVER_PORT                         | 8888                              |
| TIMESTAMP_PRECISION                 | ms                                |
| ISDOWNSAMPLING                      | true                              |
| INTERVAL                            | 1m                                |
| CONTINUOUS_DATA_FUNCTION            | AVG                               |
| DISCRETE_DATA_FUNCTION              | LAST_VALUE                        |

# How to run IoTDB-grafana-connector by docker compose
> Using docker compose, it contains three services: iotdb, grafana and grafana-connector

1. The location of docker compose file: `/docker/src/main/DockerCompose/docker-compose-grafana.yml`
2. Use `docker-compose up` can start all three services
   1. you can use `docker-compose up -d` to start in the background
   2. you can modify `docker-compose-grafana.yml` to implement your requirements.
      1. you can modify environment of grafana-connector
      2. If you want to **SAVE ALL DATA**, please use `volumes` keyword to mount the data volume or file of the host into the container.
3. After all services are start, you can visit `{ip}:3000` to visit grafana
   1. In `Configuration`, search `SimpleJson`
   2. Fill in url: `grafana-connector:8888`, then click `save and test`. if `Data source is working` is shown, the configuration is finished.
   3. Then you can create dashboards.
4. if you want to stop services, just run `docker-compose down`

Enjoy it!

Commit message:

IOTDB-5227 docker deploy support multiple platforms and fix mistakes (#8542)
* docker deploy for 1.0.0: dockerfiles,docker-compose files,support shell and docs related

* IOTDB-5227 support multiple platforms and fix mistakes

docker/ReadMe.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# Docker image version definition

Before v0.12, Apache IoTDB's docker image name and version format is:
`apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>`.

From 0.12 on, we release two images: one is for a single node, and the other is for the cluster mode.
The format is: `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-node` and `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-cluster`.

From 1.0.0, we split 3 kinds of images: datanode,confignode and all of them in one image called 1C1D. 
The format is: `apache/iotdb:<version>-confignode`,`apache/iotdb:<version>-datanode` and `apache/iotdb:<version>-1c1d`.

## The definition of tag "latest"
Before v0.12, the "latest" tag will forward to the largest `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>`.

From 0.12 on, the "latest" tag will forward to the largest `apache/iotdb:0.<major>.<minor>-node`.


# How to build

docker build -t THE_DOCKER_IMAGE_NAME:THE_VERSION -f THE_DOCKER_FILE_NAME

e.g.,

```shell
docker build -t my-iotdb:<version> -f Dockerfile-<version>
# for 1.0.0
cd src/main/DockerCompose
./do-docker-build.sh -t <target> -v <version>
e.g.
./do-docker-build.sh -t confignode -v 1.0.0
```
Notice:
Make directory of src/main/target and put the zip file downloading from the official download page. 
e.g.
```shell
$ ls -hl target/
total 215M
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 75M Nov 30 20:04 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-all-bin.zip
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 69M Dec  1 17:12 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-confignode-bin.zip
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 73M Dec  1 17:13 apache-iotdb-1.0.0-datanode-bin.zip
```

# How to run IoTDB server 

Actually, we maintain a repo on dockerhub, so that you can get the docker image directly.

For example,

```shell
docker run -d --name iotdb -p 6667:6667 -p 31999:31999 -p 8181:8181 -p 5555:5555 apache/iotdb:<version>
```

```shell
docker run -d --name iotdb -p 6667:6667 -p 31999:31999 -p 8181:8181 -p 5555:5555 -p 9003:9003 -p 40010:40010 apache/iotdb:<version>
```
Since 1.0.0, see [offical documents.](https://iotdb.apache.org/UserGuide/Master/QuickStart/WayToGetIoTDB.html)
## Port description

By default, the ports that IoTDB uses are:

* 6667: RPC port
* 31999: JMX port
* 8086: InfluxDB Protocol port
* 8181: Monitor port
* 5555: Data sync port
* 9003: internal metadata rpc port (for cluster)
* 40010: internal data rpc port (for cluster)


## How to configure docker volumes

The instructions below show how to store the output data and logs of IoTDB to two folders called 
iotdb_data and iotdb_logs respectively. 

`/D/docker/iotdb_data` and `/D/docker/iotdb_logs` can be changed to any local directory of your own host.

```shell
docker run -it -v /D/docker/iotdb_data:/iotdb/data -v /D/docker/iotdb_logs:/iotdb/logs --name 123 apache/iotdb:<version>
```

# How to run IoTDB client

Suppose you have run an IoTDB Server in docker

1. Use `docker ps` to find out the CONTAINER ID
e.g.,
   
```shell
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                NAMES
c82321c70137        apache/iotdb:<version>  "/iotdb/sbin/start-s…"   12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes       0.0.0.0:6667->6667/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8181->8181/tcp, 5555/tcp, 0.0.0.0:31999->31999/tcp   iotdb
```
2. Use `docker exec` to attach the container:

```shell
docker exec -it iotdb /bin/bash
```

Then, for the latest version (or, >=0.10.x), run `start-cli.sh`, for version 0.9.x and 0.8.1, run `start-client.sh`.

Or, 

```shell
docker exec -it iotdb start-cli.sh
```

# How to run IoTDB-grafana-connector

1. First way: use config file:

```
docker run -it -v /your_application.properties_folder:/iotdb-grafana-connector/config -p 8888:8888 apache/iotdb:<version>-grafana
```

2. Second way: use environment(take `SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL` for example)

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 apache/iotdb:<version>-grafana -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:iotdb://iotdb:6667/
```

3. All related environment are as follows(more details in `grafana/src/main/resources/application.properties`)

| name                                | default value                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL               | jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/      |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME          | root                              |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD          | root                              |
| SPRING_DATASOURCE_DRIVER_CLASS_NAME | org.apache.iotdb.jdbc.IoTDBDriver |
| SERVER_PORT                         | 8888                              |
| TIMESTAMP_PRECISION                 | ms                                |
| ISDOWNSAMPLING                      | true                              |
| INTERVAL                            | 1m                                |
| CONTINUOUS_DATA_FUNCTION            | AVG                               |
| DISCRETE_DATA_FUNCTION              | LAST_VALUE                        |

# How to run IoTDB-grafana-connector by docker compose
> Using docker compose, it contains three services: iotdb, grafana and grafana-connector

1. The location of docker compose file: `/docker/src/main/DockerCompose/docker-compose-grafana.yml`
2. Use `docker-compose up` can start all three services
   1. you can use `docker-compose up -d` to start in the background
   2. you can modify `docker-compose-grafana.yml` to implement your requirements.
      1. you can modify environment of grafana-connector
      2. If you want to **SAVE ALL DATA**, please use `volumes` keyword to mount the data volume or file of the host into the container.
3. After all services are start, you can visit `{ip}:3000` to visit grafana
   1. In `Configuration`, search `SimpleJson`
   2. Fill in url: `grafana-connector:8888`, then click `save and test`. if `Data source is working` is shown, the configuration is finished.
   3. Then you can create dashboards.
4. if you want to stop services, just run `docker-compose down`

Enjoy it!
