docs/UserGuide/Ecosystem Integration/Spark IoTDB.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
## Spark-IoTDB

### version

The versions required for Spark and Java are as follow:

| Spark Version | Scala Version | Java Version | TsFile |
| :-------------: | :-------------: | :------------: |:------------: |
| `2.4.5`        | `2.12`        | `1.8`        | `0.13.0`|


> Currently we only support spark version 2.4.5 and there are some known issue on 2.4.7, do no use it


### Install
```shell
mvn clean scala:compile compile install
```

#### Maven Dependency

```
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.iotdb</groupId>
      <artifactId>spark-iotdb-connector</artifactId>
      <version>0.13.0</version>
    </dependency>
```

#### spark-shell user guide

Notice: There is a conflict of thrift version between IoTDB and Spark. 
Therefore, if you want to debug in spark-shell, you need to execute `rm -f $SPARK_HOME/jars/libthrift*` and `cp $IOTDB_HOME/lib/libthrift* $SPARK_HOME/jars/` to resolve it.
Otherwise, you can only debug the code in IDE. If you want to run your task by `spark-submit`, you must package with dependency.


```
spark-shell --jars spark-iotdb-connector-0.13.0.jar,iotdb-jdbc-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar,iotdb-session-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar

import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql","select * from root").load

df.printSchema()

df.show()
```

To partition rdd:

```
spark-shell --jars spark-iotdb-connector-0.13.0.jar,iotdb-jdbc-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar,iotdb-session-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar

import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql","select * from root").
                        option("lowerBound", [lower bound of time that you want query(include)]).option("upperBound", [upper bound of time that you want query(include)]).
                        option("numPartition", [the partition number you want]).load

df.printSchema()

df.show()
```

#### Schema Inference

Take the following TsFile structure as an example: There are three Measurements in the TsFile schema: status, temperature, and hardware. The basic information of these three measurements is as follows:

|Name|Type|Encode|
|---|---|---|
|status|Boolean|PLAIN|
|temperature|Float|RLE|
|hardware|Text|PLAIN|

The existing data in the TsFile is as follows:

<img width="517" alt="SI " src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69114052/98197835-99a64980-1f62-11eb-84af-8301b8a6aad5.png">

The wide(default) table form is as follows:

| time | root.ln.wf02.wt02.temperature | root.ln.wf02.wt02.status | root.ln.wf02.wt02.hardware | root.ln.wf01.wt01.temperature | root.ln.wf01.wt01.status | root.ln.wf01.wt01.hardware |
|------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|
|    1 | null                          | true                     | null                       | 2.2                           | true                     | null                       |
|    2 | null                          | false                    | aaa                        | 2.2                           | null                     | null                       |
|    3 | null                          | null                     | null                       | 2.1                           | true                     | null                       |
|    4 | null                          | true                     | bbb                        | null                          | null                     | null                       |
|    5 | null                          | null                     | null                       | null                          | false                    | null                       |
|    6 | null                          | null                     | ccc                        | null                          | null                     | null                       |

You can also use narrow table form which as follows: (You can see part 4 about how to use narrow form)

| time | device_name                   | status                   | hardware                   | temperature |
|------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|
|    1 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | true                     | null                       | 2.2                           |
|    1 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | true                     | null                       | null                          |
|    2 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | null                     | null                       | 2.2                          |
|    2 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | false                    | aaa                        | null                           |
|    3 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | true                     | null                       | 2.1                           |
|    4 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | true                     | bbb                        | null                          |
|    5 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | false                    | null                       | null                          |
|    6 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | null                     | ccc                        | null                          |

#### Transform between wide and narrow table

* from wide to narrow

```scala
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val wide_df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql", "select * from root where time < 1100 and time > 1000").load
val narrow_df = Transformer.toNarrowForm(spark, wide_df)
```

* from narrow to wide

```scala
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val wide_df = Transformer.toWideForm(spark, narrow_df)
```

#### Java user guide

```java
import org.apache.spark.sql.Dataset;
import org.apache.spark.sql.Row;
import org.apache.spark.sql.SparkSession;
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db.*;

public class Example {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    SparkSession spark = SparkSession
        .builder()
        .appName("Build a DataFrame from Scratch")
        .master("local[*]")
        .getOrCreate();

    Dataset<Row> df = spark.read().format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
        .option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
        .option("sql","select * from root").load();

    df.printSchema();

    df.show();
    
    Dataset<Row> narrowTable = Transformer.toNarrowForm(spark, df);
    narrowTable.show();
  }
}
```

### Write Data to IoTDB

#### User Guide
``` scala
// import narrow table
val df = spark.createDataFrame(List(
      (1L, "root.test.d0",1, 1L, 1.0F, 1.0D, true, "hello"),
      (2L, "root.test.d0", 2, 2L, 2.0F, 2.0D, false, "world")))

val dfWithColumn = df.withColumnRenamed("_1", "Time")
    .withColumnRenamed("_2", "device_name")
    .withColumnRenamed("_3", "s0")
    .withColumnRenamed("_4", "s1")
    .withColumnRenamed("_5", "s2")
    .withColumnRenamed("_6", "s3")
    .withColumnRenamed("_7", "s4")
    .withColumnRenamed("_8", "s5")
dfWithColumn
    .write
    .format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
    .option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
    .save
    
// import wide table
val df = spark.createDataFrame(List(
      (1L, 1, 1L, 1.0F, 1.0D, true, "hello"),
      (2L, 2, 2L, 2.0F, 2.0D, false, "world")))

val dfWithColumn = df.withColumnRenamed("_1", "Time")
    .withColumnRenamed("_2", "root.test.d0.s0")
    .withColumnRenamed("_3", "root.test.d0.s1")
    .withColumnRenamed("_4", "root.test.d0.s2")
    .withColumnRenamed("_5", "root.test.d0.s3")
    .withColumnRenamed("_6", "root.test.d0.s4")
    .withColumnRenamed("_7", "root.test.d0.s5")
dfWithColumn.write.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
    .option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
    .option("numPartition", "10")
    .save
```

#### Notes
1. You can directly write data to IoTDB whatever the dataframe contains a wide table or a narrow table.
2. The parameter `numPartition` is used to set the number of partitions. The dataframe that you want to save will be repartition based on this parameter before  writing data. Each partition will open a session to write data to increase the number of concurrent requests.

Commit message:

[IOTDB-2438] update the guide of spark connector (#4966)

docs/UserGuide/Ecosystem Integration/Spark IoTDB.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
## Spark-IoTDB

### Version

The versions required for Spark and Java are as follow:

| Spark Version | Scala Version | Java Version | TsFile |
| :-------------: | :-------------: | :------------: |:------------: |
| `2.4.0-3.2.0`        | `2.12`        | `1.8`        | `0.13.0`|

### Notice

1. `Spark IoTDB Connector` only supports Spark `2.4.5` to `3.2.0` with `Scala 2.12`.
If you need to support other versions, you can modify the Scala version of the POM file in the module `spark-iotdb-connector` in the source code and then recompile it.
2. There is a conflict of thrift version between IoTDB and Spark.
   Therefore, if you want to debug in spark-shell, you need to execute `rm -f $SPARK_HOME/jars/libthrift*` and `cp $IOTDB_HOME/lib/libthrift* $SPARK_HOME/jars/` to resolve it.
   Otherwise, you can only debug the code in IDE. If you want to run your task by `spark-submit`, you must package with dependency.

### Install
```shell
mvn clean scala:compile compile install
```

#### Maven Dependency

```
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.iotdb</groupId>
      <artifactId>spark-iotdb-connector</artifactId>
      <version>0.13.0</version>
    </dependency>
```

#### spark-shell user guide

```
spark-shell --jars spark-iotdb-connector-0.13.0.jar,iotdb-jdbc-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar,iotdb-session-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar

import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql","select * from root").load

df.printSchema()

df.show()
```

To partition rdd:

```
spark-shell --jars spark-iotdb-connector-0.13.0.jar,iotdb-jdbc-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar,iotdb-session-0.13.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar

import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql","select * from root").
                        option("lowerBound", [lower bound of time that you want query(include)]).option("upperBound", [upper bound of time that you want query(include)]).
                        option("numPartition", [the partition number you want]).load

df.printSchema()

df.show()
```

#### Schema Inference

Take the following TsFile structure as an example: There are three Measurements in the TsFile schema: status, temperature, and hardware. The basic information of these three measurements is as follows:

|Name|Type|Encode|
|---|---|---|
|status|Boolean|PLAIN|
|temperature|Float|RLE|
|hardware|Text|PLAIN|

The existing data in the TsFile is as follows:

<img width="517" alt="SI " src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69114052/98197835-99a64980-1f62-11eb-84af-8301b8a6aad5.png">

The wide(default) table form is as follows:

| time | root.ln.wf02.wt02.temperature | root.ln.wf02.wt02.status | root.ln.wf02.wt02.hardware | root.ln.wf01.wt01.temperature | root.ln.wf01.wt01.status | root.ln.wf01.wt01.hardware |
|------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|
|    1 | null                          | true                     | null                       | 2.2                           | true                     | null                       |
|    2 | null                          | false                    | aaa                        | 2.2                           | null                     | null                       |
|    3 | null                          | null                     | null                       | 2.1                           | true                     | null                       |
|    4 | null                          | true                     | bbb                        | null                          | null                     | null                       |
|    5 | null                          | null                     | null                       | null                          | false                    | null                       |
|    6 | null                          | null                     | ccc                        | null                          | null                     | null                       |

You can also use narrow table form which as follows: (You can see part 4 about how to use narrow form)

| time | device_name                   | status                   | hardware                   | temperature |
|------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|
|    1 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | true                     | null                       | 2.2                           |
|    1 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | true                     | null                       | null                          |
|    2 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | null                     | null                       | 2.2                          |
|    2 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | false                    | aaa                        | null                           |
|    3 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | true                     | null                       | 2.1                           |
|    4 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | true                     | bbb                        | null                          |
|    5 | root.ln.wf02.wt01             | false                    | null                       | null                          |
|    6 | root.ln.wf02.wt02             | null                     | ccc                        | null                          |

#### Transform between wide and narrow table

* from wide to narrow

```scala
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val wide_df = spark.read.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db").option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/").option("sql", "select * from root where time < 1100 and time > 1000").load
val narrow_df = Transformer.toNarrowForm(spark, wide_df)
```

* from narrow to wide

```scala
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db._

val wide_df = Transformer.toWideForm(spark, narrow_df)
```

#### Java user guide

```java
import org.apache.spark.sql.Dataset;
import org.apache.spark.sql.Row;
import org.apache.spark.sql.SparkSession;
import org.apache.iotdb.spark.db.*;

public class Example {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    SparkSession spark = SparkSession
        .builder()
        .appName("Build a DataFrame from Scratch")
        .master("local[*]")
        .getOrCreate();

    Dataset<Row> df = spark.read().format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
        .option("url","jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
        .option("sql","select * from root").load();

    df.printSchema();

    df.show();
    
    Dataset<Row> narrowTable = Transformer.toNarrowForm(spark, df);
    narrowTable.show();
  }
}
```

### Write Data to IoTDB

#### User Guide
``` scala
// import narrow table
val df = spark.createDataFrame(List(
      (1L, "root.test.d0",1, 1L, 1.0F, 1.0D, true, "hello"),
      (2L, "root.test.d0", 2, 2L, 2.0F, 2.0D, false, "world")))

val dfWithColumn = df.withColumnRenamed("_1", "Time")
    .withColumnRenamed("_2", "device_name")
    .withColumnRenamed("_3", "s0")
    .withColumnRenamed("_4", "s1")
    .withColumnRenamed("_5", "s2")
    .withColumnRenamed("_6", "s3")
    .withColumnRenamed("_7", "s4")
    .withColumnRenamed("_8", "s5")
dfWithColumn
    .write
    .format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
    .option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
    .save
    
// import wide table
val df = spark.createDataFrame(List(
      (1L, 1, 1L, 1.0F, 1.0D, true, "hello"),
      (2L, 2, 2L, 2.0F, 2.0D, false, "world")))

val dfWithColumn = df.withColumnRenamed("_1", "Time")
    .withColumnRenamed("_2", "root.test.d0.s0")
    .withColumnRenamed("_3", "root.test.d0.s1")
    .withColumnRenamed("_4", "root.test.d0.s2")
    .withColumnRenamed("_5", "root.test.d0.s3")
    .withColumnRenamed("_6", "root.test.d0.s4")
    .withColumnRenamed("_7", "root.test.d0.s5")
dfWithColumn.write.format("org.apache.iotdb.spark.db")
    .option("url", "jdbc:iotdb://127.0.0.1:6667/")
    .option("numPartition", "10")
    .save
```

#### Notes
1. You can directly write data to IoTDB whatever the dataframe contains a wide table or a narrow table.
2. The parameter `numPartition` is used to set the number of partitions. The dataframe that you want to save will be repartition based on this parameter before  writing data. Each partition will open a session to write data to increase the number of concurrent requests.
